ACID

Does this query happen all at once? Or is it broken up into multiple actions? Sometimes this is a very important question. If you're doing financial transactions this can be paramount. Imagine if you have two queries: one to subtract money from one person's account and one to add that amount to another person's account for a bank transfer. What if the power went out in between the two queries? Money would be lost. This is an unacceptable trade-off in this case. You would need this to be atomic. That is, this transaction cannot be divided.
If I have five servers running with one running as the primary server (sometimes called master but we prefer leader or primary) and the primary server crashes, what happens? Again, using money, what if a query had been written to the primary but not yet to the secondaries? This could be a disaster and people could lose money. In this case, we need our servers to be consistent.
Isolation says that we can have a multi-threaded database but it needs to work the same if a query was ran in parallel or if it was ran sequentially. Otherwise it fails the isolation test.
Durability says that if a server crashes that we can restore it to the state that it was in previously. Some databases only run in memory so if a server crashes, that data is gone. However this is slow; waiting for a DB to write to disk before finishing a query adds a lot of time.
Not everything you do needs to be ACID compliant. ACID is safe but slow. You need to make the right trade-offs for every app and query you're making. Many of these databases allow you to be flexible per-query what level of ACID you need your query is. Some queries you want to make sure get written out to the secondary before moving on. Others it's fine with a small amount of risk that it could be lost. Some queries need to be atomic, others partial failures aren't the end of the world. It's about balancing your needs.
